So now from MongoDB we will go to
Aerospike which is a key value store.
Key value stores typically offer an API.
That is the way to access data using a
programming language like Python or Java.
We will take a very brief look
at Aerospike, which offers both
a programmatic access and
a limited amount of query access to data.
The data model of Aerospike
is illustrated here.
Data are organized in lean spaces which
can be in memory or on flash disks.
Name spaces are top level data containers.
The way you collect data in name spaces
relates to how data is stored and managed.
So name space contains records,
indexes, and policies.
Now policies dictate name space
behavior like how data is stored,
whether it's on RAM or disk, or
how how many replicas exist for
a record, and when records expire.
A name space can contain sets,
you can think of them as tables.
So here there are two sets,
people and places,
and a set of records
which are not in any set.
Within a record,
data is stored in one or many bins.
Bins consist of a name and a value.
The example written here is in Java, and
you don't have to know Java to
follow the main point here.
Here we are creating indexes on key
value data that's handled by Aerospike.
This data set comes from Twitter.
Each field of a tweet is extracted and
put into Aerospike as a key value pair.
So we declare the namespace to be
example, and the record set to be tweet.
The name of the index to be TestIndex,
and the name of the bin as user name.
Since this index is stored
on disk an SQL-like command,
like SHOW INDEX, shows the content
of the index as you can see here.
This routine shows
how data can be inserted into
Aerospike programmatically.
Again, the goal is to point out a few
salient aspects of data insertion
regardless of the syntax of the language.
Now since this is a key value store,
one first needs to define the key.
This line here says that the key in
the namespace call example, and set call
tweet, is the value of the function getId,
which returns the ID of a tweet.
When the data is populated,
we are essentially creating bins.
Here, user name is the attribute and
the screen name obtained
from the tweet is the value.
The actual insertion
happens here in the client.
The client.put statement,
where we need to mention the key and
the bins we have just created.
Now why are we inserting
two bins at a time?
Two bins with two ids and user name?
This is an idiosyncrasy
of the Aerospike client.
After data is inserted one can
create other data using AQL
which is very much like SQL.
This screenshot shows a part of
the output of a simple select star query.
Now in your hands-on exercise, you'll be
able to play with the Aerospike data.
This is just a screenshot showing
the basic query syntax of AQL,
that is Aerospike Query Language,
and a few examples.
The last two lines show a couple of
interesting features of the language.
The operation between 0 and 99,
is a nicer way of stating a range query,
which gives a lower and
upper limits on a variable.
The last line shows the operation cost,
which transforms one type
of data to another type.
Here it transforms coordinates,
that is latitude and longitude data,
to a JSON format called GeoJSON which is
designed to represent geographic data
in a JSON structure.
We will finish our coverage of queries
with a quick reference to an advanced
topic, which is beyond
the scope of this course.
Now you have seen in prior courses that
streaming data is complex to process
because a stream is infinite in nature.
Now does this have any impact on
query languages and evaluation?
The answer is that it absolutely does.
We'll mention one such impact here.
This shows a pictorial
depiction of streaming data.
The data is segmented into five pieces,
shown in the white boxes in the upper row.
These can be gathered, for example every
few seconds, or every 200 data objects.
The query defines a window to select
key of these data objects
as a unit of processing.
Here case three.
So three units of data
are picked up in a window unit.
To get the next window it
is moved by two units,
this is called a slide of the window.
Since the window size is three and
the slide is two,
one unit of information overlaps
between the two consecutive windows.
The lower line in this diagram shows
the initialized item, let's ignore it,
followed by two window sets of
data records for processing.
Thus the query language therefore,
will have to specify a query
that's an SQL query, over a window,
which is also specified in the query.
Now in a traffic data stream example,
the SQL statement might look like this.
Where the window size is 30 second, and
the slide is the same size as window
giving output every 30 seconds.
So streaming data results in changes
in both the query language and
the way queries are processed.